INTRODUCTION: 

CEH:
This Certification is provided by EC-Council.
EC-Council is International Council of Electronic Commerce Consultants.
Certified ethical hacker are professional who find the bug and fix it and protects from the black hat hackers.

EC-Counsil says,to beat a hacker, you need to think like a hacker.
We do hack like a  hacker but in a ethical way.

ESSENTIAL TERMINOLOGIES:
HACK VALUE:for example i have provided with two system for hacking,for hacking the first system i am getting paid but not for the second system so the
           hack value of the first system is attractive and valuable and worth doing that means hack value.
Zero day attack:it means exploiting the vulnerability before the developer adentifies it and releases any patches for that vulnerability.
                 EX:if the target has not updated his system and before updating it, hacker gained access into the target system.
                    also if u have not your antivirus then hacker can use the new version of antivirus to compromise ur computer an it even not be detected 
                      by ur antivirus.
Vulnerability:any bug,loophole or weaknesses which are exploited by hacker and make possible to gain access into ur system,network,etc.
Daisy Chaining:suppose i got an vulnerability in a system and gained access in that and the device which attached to that system can also be hacked by using the 
               same vulnerability.
Exploit:Breaking any system or network using different techniques and methods targeting on the vulnerability.
Doxing:getting any information of the target like their credential and publishing publically.
Payload:EX;i have a pen drive where i have injected the virus which is just a set of code so that malicious code or virus is the payload which will i use to corrupt 
            the target system.
Bot: bot word came from robot,bot is used to crawl all the internet to give the reponse to our request that is called spider which is a bot that is made by
     different code.the same technique the hacker has made to perform illegal activities.once the bot software install on the target system the bot give the
     notification to the attacker that it has been installed and after that hacker can perform any kind of activities there.

ELEMENTS OF INFO. SEC: 
    Confidentiality,Integrity,Availability,Authenticity,non-repudiation.

SECURITY,FUNCTIONALITY,USABILITY:

MOTIVES,GOALS,AND OBJECTIVES OF INFORMATION SECURITY ATTACKS:

*Attack=Motive(Goal)+Method+Vulnerability







TOP INFORMATION SECURITY ATTACK VECTORS:
Threat  is those which is harmful to our system,and it can be anything which can harm our system.

1.Cloud Computing Threats:
2.Advanced Persistent Threats:
3.Viruses and Worms:
4.Mobile Threats


1.Cloud computing Threats:
2.Advanced Persistent Threats(APT):
3.Viruses and Worms:
4.Mobile Threats:
5.Insider Attack:
6.Botnets:


HACKING:
   hacking is gaining unauthorised access to any devices by finding the bug in it and exploiting it.
Who is Hacker:
Skills of an ethical hacker:
     hardware,network(OSI,TCP/IP,TCP,UDP,Switch,Router),
Server(IIS,apache,nginx,lighttpd,Server 2016),Database(SQL),
Programming(javascript,asp.net,python,node.js),security principals.


TYPES of Hackers:
   Blackhat:hacking in an illegal way.
   Whitehat:hacking in a legal way
   Greyhat:mixture of both white and black.ex;i have hacked any website without the permission of an owner that is illegal and also reported the bug the the
           company that is greyhat.
   Script kiddie:hacker who dont have any knowledge about anything and do hacking only by surfing youtube google learning the tools and techniques and have no depth knowledge.
   Hacktivist:Those hackers who keep their identity hidden.
              Their main purpose is freedom of speech and exposing fraud going in politics,organization or in country regarding corrution
              or any thing wrong going in the society.
   Cyber Terrorist:hacker who  harm the country by attacking the large scale organisation,causes damage to gov system,hospital records,etc
   Sucide Hackers:aim of distruction without worrying about punishment.
   State sponsored hacker:hackers which are hired by gov to gain top secrete info.
   
PHASES:
   Reconnaissance:it is the process of gathering all the information about the target.
                   If it is organisation then who r the employee,the education level,number of employee,the number of devices attached and the type of network they are using.
                   the ports that are open on the target
                   what OS the target is using and its version,the email id,ports,etc
                         TYPES:
                              Passive: gathering info. without interacting with the target.ex; gathering info using the public or social media searching.
                                       gathering publically available info. of target. 

                              Active:gaining info by directly interacting with the target,like by calling the target or email them.
   Scanning:gathering a specific information on the basis of an info. gathered in reconnassaince phase.like i got the IP of target then by using nmap 
            i can get their domain name,the ports that are open,the version they are using and also can scan many more information.
   Gaining access:using those gathered info they try to find out the vulnerability and do attack on that vulnerabilty and an hacker get access in the target sysytem
   Maintaining Access:when an attacker gained access of the system,then he closed all the backdoors that he had created so that at the same time other hacker
                      couldnt acces it.To have full control over the target without any inturaption.
                      In this same phase where an hacker can attack other systems from the target system like he can perform DDOS attack,etc.
   Clearing Track:attacker deletes all his activities he had done on the target system so he couldnt be detected.like if he has made any file or folder
                  to perform any malicious activities he delete all those and all the logs created by him he clears all of that.

Vulnerability Accessment:
Penetration Testing:



KALI LINUX: Linus Torvalds
        it is a debian based linux distribution which was made for digital forensics and penetration testing.
           Debian was an OS who used to use linux kernel.Debian was started in 1993 by Ian Murdock.his wife,s name was debra so Ian and Debra is debian.
The os and the team which maintains the OS that all known as Debian.
Kali linux is maintained and developed by offnsive security,offensive security is an international comapny which works in info security,digital forensic,PT
and also gives the OSCP certification.
Before kali linux Backtrack was used for hacking and later rewroted by Mati Aharoni and Devon Kearns of offensive security and named that as kali linux.
kali name formed from kernel auditing linux 
the work was started in 2012 and released in 2013,the version 1.0.

REQUIREMENT SPECIFICATION FOR KALI:
20gb of hard disk space.
min 2048MB of ram.
run both on 32 and 64bit platform

kali Nethunter for android.
600+ tools preinstalled in kali


Download Kali:
https://cdimage.kali.org/kali-2019.4/














